we start this hour in the Middle East
where America's top Diplomat Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin continues
diplomatic efforts in a bid to prevent a
regional escalation of Israel's war in
Gaza he'll hold talks with the United
Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia today on
containing the international shipping
threat in the Red Sea by the
iranian-backed houthi rebels of
neighboring Yemen before traveling to
Tel Aviv ahead of his arrival in Israel
intense Israeli air strikes have been
continuing in the Gaza Strip as well as
ground battles with Hamas Fighters
Israeli forces say They carried out
strikes on 30 targets overnight there's
also deep concern over the dire
humanitarian situation in Gaza where AID
organizations say their doctors have
been forced to pull out of one of the
last functioning hospitals after the
surrounding area was designated a combat
zone by the Israeli military the World
Health Organization says that if the
alaxa hospital is stopped from operating
it will be a moral and medical outrage W
Davis sent this report from Jerusalem
and and I should warn you it contains
distressing images right from the
start images coming from jabalia in
Northern Gaza today are difficult to
watch reporters quickly on the scene
describe dozens of bodies lying in the
rubble of a destroyed building many of
them women and
children unconfirmed Reports say at
least 70 people were killed here in what
was reported to be an Israeli air strike
the Israeli military has not yet
responded to a BBC request for more
information across Gaza say Aid agencies
the civilian toll is
unbearable this the aftermath of another
attack in Han unun Health officials say
that even medical facilities including
hospitals are unsafe as Israel's
Relentless campaign continues against
Hamas military targets the stock inside
of this Hospital are heroes who are
doing everything they can without sleep
without food food without knowing if
their own families are safe in order to
save the lives of others so this
hospital and the staff in this Hospital
have to be protected with an increasing
sense of urgency The American Secretary
of State is on a Whistle Stop tour of
middle Easter capitals with real concern
about the humanitarian situation and the
possibility of a region-wide conflict
Anthony blinkin is being urged to use
America's influence over Israel to
demand an immediate
ceasefire but even if Washington presses
that point Israel's leader isn't yet
listening we are not stopping until
Victory the war must not be stopped
until we achieve all of its goals the
elimination of Hamas the return of all
of our hostages and ensuring that Gaza
no longer poses a threat to Israel I say
this to both our enemies and our friends
while aladu wishes fighting would end
he's already lost family and several
colleagues today the alaz correspondent
buried his son Hamza also a reporter
killed in an air strike after Israel
says they were targeting a suspect and
were aware of others in his car the
latest of at least 75 local journalists
to have been killed in Gaza paying the
highest price to report this war to the
world W Davis BBC News
Jerusalem let's go live to Jerusalem now
and speak to our Middle East
correspondent Yulan Nell and Yulan can
you just give us the context to what we
are hearing um about what Anthony
blinkin is going to be saying about
about saying that Palestinians shouldn't
be pressured into leaving Gaza just
explain why why this has come about
because there an Israeli ministers
talking about this weren't
there that's right there have been some
Israeli ministers within the coalition
government uh they're on the far right
in particular that have been calling for
forced displacement of Palestinians in
effect uh from the Gaza Strip uh
Washington has already issued sharp
rebukes about that um and said that
Palestinians must be allowed to return
to their homes um in the north of the
Gaza Strip first of all as soon as
conditions allow so that will be uh part
of Anthony blinken's message as he comes
here otherwise we can expect him to
continue this conversation about trying
to stop the regional spillover of this
war um he's also said that it's
imperative that Israel takes more action
uh puts a premium on protecting
civilians in the Gaza Strip and also
does more to help in terms of getting
Aid not just into Gaza but allowing that
Aid to be distributed where it's really
needed and as we were seeing in we's
report there um Benjamin Netanyahu
remaining uh defiant in terms of any
calls for a possible ceasefire um are
are there talks still ongoing right now
in terms of a possible pause in the
fighting because there was a lot of talk
about that a few days ago but that seems
to have gone quiet
well of course the ceries have been
important mediators and this is
something that was addressed when Mr
blinken was meeting uh cat officials in
the past day um and they have uh given
assurances that there are still
continued efforts uh to reach a new
ceasefire deal with Hamas to bring home
uh the remaining 100 plus Israeli
hostages still held by Hamas and other
armed groups in the Gaza Strip and we
also saw unusually uh some of the
hostage families heading to katar
themselves to meet katerie officials uh
trying to keep the issue uh of their
loved ones on this diplomatic agenda uh
Mr blinkin himself has put it high up on
his agenda this issue of bringing back
uh the Israeli hostages when he was
laying out what he hoped to achieve in
the Middle East okay thank you very much
Yan now for us there live in Jerusalem